>> That was our first step.
>> Now, we get a lot of these volumes.
>> So, we basically go into our
three-dimensional data, that we got from
the tomograms.
>> We found, so we have the
three-dimension data.
>> We go and look for all the areas
with the virus, and we segment out those
spikes, or envelopes.
>> Sometimes that's, that done by hand.
>> Basically, somebody goes and places
a box around each one of them.
>> Sometimes you can do that
automatically if you have a model of
what, more or less, you expect.
>> Then you travel around your image
with that model.
>> And you do, a distance at every
place.
>> And if the distance is small, you
say, oh.
>> It looks like there is 1 of these
envelopes here.
>> It's very similar to what we did, we
did with non local means.
>> In non local means, we were looking
for similar patches.
>> Now, the patch is a model that you
have and with it, you go wrong.
>> So, either one of those ways, either
manual or with this semi-automatic, you
get this volumes.
>> This volumes can be like a
100x100x100 pixels representing,
basically, the envelope inside this spike
that we have.
>> Now remember, these are noisy,
they're not all the same.
>> We need to group them, we need to
align them, and that's what we're
going to basically do.
>> We are going to align them first,
and there still very noisy.
>> So the alignment is not going to be
great because you're trying to align
things that are very, very noisy.
>> but it's a good step.
>> You can actually, only if you want,
align those that are.
>> Basically, it put a very, very high
threshold and very high level of
confidence in the alignment.
>> And you say I'm going to align them.
>> Only those that basically after I
align, the distance is almost zero.
>> They're almost identical.
>> So, then I have more confidence that
I have than.
>> Good alignment.
>> Once again alignment is you start
and just rotate them until the distance
that we show in the previous slides
becomes the smallest possible.
>> Once you have them aligned, then
classification becomes a bit easier.
>> So you say okay now I have them all
aligned.
>> I have them all in a common space.
>> Now I want to group them to try to
only put in the same group those
envelopes that basically have the same 3
dimensional shape.
>> And there are many ways of doing
this classification or clustering that we
need there.
>> But let me just illustrate to you
one example.
>> So you have all of them aligned.
>> And now you have the distance, the
distance that basically led you to the
smallest raw, the smallest alignment
rotation.
>> So you have, you align them, you
rotate them, you align them, you have the
distance.
>> And now, you basically, how do you
group them, you.
>> Group all of them.
>> So you pick one, and you say, hey,
bring me all my friends.
>> Who are my friends? Don't have very
small distance to me.
>> That's 1 group.
>> Then you pick another one.
>> And say, bring me all my friends.
>> And who are the friends? Those that
I go a very small distance.
>> So you basically group them.
>> Once you group.
>> If you did everything right, you can
basically average them.
>> And we know that the average would
reduce the noise.
>> That's what we taught before.
>> We explained when we were doing
image denoising.
>> So you can kind of denoise them a
tiny bit.
>> And after you denoise them a tiny
bit, you can say, hey, let's try to align
them again.
>> Now, there are a bit more clean
images.
>> So we are going to align them again.
>> We are going to cluster again.
>> We are going to align them again.
>> And we are going to cluster them
again.
>> And you repeat that for a number of
iterations until you're satisfied.
>> Either that things are not changing
too much.
>> Or basically you say, this is the
best I can do, so I'm going to stick with
that, and that's a process.
>> With the final distance, with
alignment, clustering, alignment,
clustering, and the big thing here, once
again, and we're going to come again and
again to that, if we have a lot of this
>> Small boxes.
>> Now, I want to reiterate to you, all
this is done in three dimensions.
>> These 100x100x100 cubes, we have
like 4,000 of them.
>> Sometimes we have 10, 20,000 of
them.
>> So, a lot of computations.
>> We need to align everybody with
everybody.
>> We need to compare everybody to
>> We need to do that many, many times.
>> You can speed up these using
different, basically, tricks.
>> One is for this particular case,
going to Fourier domain.
>> Normally these things are
implemented in GPU's and, and very, very
efficient implementations to make them
run in hours and not in weeks.
>> So that's what we have that more
challenging, the most challenging part,
computationally is this alignment part
because we have to basically try all
these angles, and that's normally done in
the, in the Fourier domain.
>> For these types of examples, as we
say, because of the missing wedge and
because of the, the speed.
>> Now, you have an algorithm.
>> You have, you've developed this
image processing algorithm, and you're
going to use it to detect the
three-dimensional shape of the envelope
in the HIV virus.
>> But then you say to yourself, how do
I know if my algorithm works? Nobody has
ever seen the envelope at the resolution
that I want to see it.
>> So, how can I validate? And this is
very important when you're talking about
medical.
>> Imaging.
>> Because you don't want to make
mistake and mislead, let's say, a
complete vaccine development because you
made a computational mistake.
>> So, what you do in most image
processing, but in particular when you're
talking with medical imaging, is you go
slow.
>> First, you start from what are
called phantoms.
>> You create three dimension shapes
that look like viruses from your prior
knowledge.
>> You add noise.
>> You project them.
>> You make missing wedges.
>> So you make them like they were
acquiring the microscope.
>> And you run your algorithm for that.
>> You know the grand truth, because
you created it.
>> You hope.
>> To reconstruct.
>> And to you don't finish that, you
don't move up.
>> So, you solve this.
>> You say, great.
>> I put different structures.
>> Phantoms I created.
>> I rotate, add noise, add missing
wedge.
>> I got them back.
>> I'm happy.
>> The next step, because it's almost
impossible to do a perfect simulation.
>> Of everything that is going in the
microscope, is you take particles that,
for some reason, we know their structure.
>> Maybe because they are larger than
the HIVs, maybe because they are more
rigid.
>> And they could be acquired with
other technologies.
>> And one of them is what's called the
GroEL, the GroEL.
>> So, you go into your microscope, you
put GroEL, you run your algorithm.
>> You get the 3D shape that everybody
knows is the right shape.
>> You say, okay, this is as much
validation as I can do.
>> Now, I'm ready to do HIV.
>> Even here, you can do a lot of
validation.
>> For example.
>> You can take these 4000 samples and
drop 500 of them.
>> Do your computations.
>> Then drop a different 500 at random.
>> And you expect to get very similar
results.
>> So, still here you have to do a lot
of validation.
>> But this is a regular progress:
phantoms, no data, and then you go into
the unknown.
>> Which is the HIV.
>> Remember, we are looking for these
tiny spikes here, and which are, we're
talking about basically, arms strokes
that's what basically, the size is that
we are talking.
>> Now, let me reiterate to you why
this is so important in this schematic.
>> These are what we have been seeing,
let me show that again.
>> This is basically a true example
from this prior tomography, one slice,
and now, this is a schematic of that.
>> Now, as I said, when it goes and
tries to latch itself into the membrane,
it actually tries to, basically, grab
from something, which is called a CD4,
here.
>> And then, the virus has these two.
>> Components that are the gp120,
basically this red, and the gp41, this
blue.
>> And it's like, you know, you could
think maybe as a flower that is opening
and then trying to latch.
>> Into the CD4.
>> And once again, it's very important
to understand how this confirmation is
latching, how it's contacting.
>> How it's basically managing to grab
the CD4 and are there any changes
happening when that's.
>> Going on.
>> Now, this has been very, very
elusive.
>> It's very, very hard to find, but
this is the importance.
>> Again, we have this schematic.
>> This latching, this contact, is
critical for the virus to go into the
host cell.
>> So that's a very important step.
>> Here.
>> And we work, if I was lucky to work
on this with people at NIH, at the
National Institute of Health.
>> And I'm going to show you some
results of these, and much more research
has been done on this area.
>> But this is important and enough
>> To illustrate the example for this
image processing class.
>> And normally, what you do, is, you
basically have the virus in different
states.
>> And then you try to look at this 3D
shape in different states.
>> And for the particular examples I'm
going to show to you.
>> We have 400 viruses.
>> From them, we got 4,000 of these
spikes and envelopes under different
states.
>> So, what's called unliganded with a
b12 complex and with other eh, eh,
complexes.
>> So, just different states.
>> We want to concentrate on the image
processing part.
>> This is what you see, this is your
raw data.
>> You put the virus, you did the
cryotomography, you basically put all the
tiles together, this is what you see, and
you say, oh boy, what am I going to do
with that?
>> But, you remember that you just
developed an algorithm that is working
for other things.
>> So you plug your algorithm into
that.
>> You start, you find the envelopes,
you do the alignment, classification,
alignment classification.
>> And then, you start seeing progress.
>> You start from basically, this is
kind of the very beginning.
>> Nothing looks okay.
>> If you align things which are
completely non, if you average things
which are completely non-aligned, you
just get balls.
>> You know, it just, everything going
in every direction.
>> Then things start getting better,
better, better, better, better, better.
>> You're, things start to appear, and,
you know, you start seeing shapes.
>> You didn't see anything, and after
iterations, you start seeing shape.
>> Because you're progressively
improving your alignment, improving your
classification, and then we know that if
we average things that are the same, the
noise goes down and then we can get the
shapes that we wanted.
>> So we go from this, which kind of
has it there, so we can see
>> Them here.
>> And that's where you go and you
either automatically manually as we say,
you pick all these particles.
>> And then you can get your
reconstruction.
>> this is actually obtained from the
tomography.
>> And what we really want, so we are
starting to see the 3D.
>> This is just one of these.
>> It doesn't have to be exactly this
one, but it's one of them.
>> You see that, and you see the
envelopes.
>> And basically, you average and
classify those envelopes.
>> And here is what you see.
>> You have the membrane that you were
expecting.
>> And, I'm going to just run this
video.
>> And this is the shape.
>> This is the envelope.
>> That you were looking for.
>> And then you tried to fit pieces
that, for all the reasons are known, and
you see, oh, this is one of my
validations.
>> Nobody has seen this in its entire
composition, but they have seen pieces of
them.
>> So let's just try to bring them.
>> And see if we can basically fit them
properly.
>> So this, is the envelopes that you
see here.
>> How you go from here to here? Smart
image processing.
>> Once you have done that, you can
start doing the biology, and this is what
the people from biology teach us, that is
the important part.
>> Why are we doing this? We cannot
explain, because now, I can look at the
HIV envelope, under different states, and
basically see that their shapes are
different.
>> Under different states, and then you
can start making biological conclusions
about that.
>> And say under certain confirmation
this is what happen under different state
when it's actually latching into the CD4.
>> It's changing shape.
>> And that's extremely important for
the vaccine development people.
>> And then the interaction starts, and
then they ask you more image processing
questions and then you try to address
that.
>> And that's what we basically is,
illustrate here with this schematic, that
basically there is a change in shape, a
change in conformation.
>> When there is CD4 binding.
>> And that's what we illustrate here
with this change in the arms, kind of an
open.
>> you can see these with image
processing.
>> You couldn't see that with your
naked eye.
>> This is 1 of the really exciting
areas, where image processing actually
helps you see something you couldn't see.
>> Before.
>> When we talked, for example, about
activity classification, that was to do
in the computer something that the human
knows how to do.
>> Here is to do something that the
human cannot do.
>> We cannot see the 3D shape just from
those projections or from those
tomography 3D reconstructions.
>> We need to do this.
>> Image processing.
>> I hope you had fun, this is an
exciting area, and this is just the tip
of the iceberg of research in image
processing, and viruses, and microscopy.
>> But it's an illustrative example
about the power of image processing to
solve.
>> Real progress.
>> We're going to see more in the next
video.
>> Looking forward to seeing you then.
>> Thank you.